# QA Community Module Style Guide

## Overview

A module on QA Community is an easy-to-digest teaching document that covers a tool or concept. The goals of a module are:

- To introduce a new topic to a learner with as little required prerequisite knowledge as possible.
- To be as simple and succinct as possible by avoiding jargon.
- To give learners practical experience in the tool, if applicable.

## Structure

Community modules adhere to the following structure, where each section is a separate heading:

- Module title (required).
- Contents (automatically generated).
- Overview (required).
- Main learning content.
- Tutorial (required).
- Exercises (required).

The contents of section is described in detail below.

### Module Title

The first line of a module should be the *title of the module*, formatted as an `<h1>` heading (one hash `#` in markdown).

The title of a module should be the subtopic of the overall course. For example, a module describing how Docker networks may work should just be titled **Networking**, not **Docker Networking** or **Docker – Networking**. On Community, the modules will be grouped by topic such that it will be clear that this is the networking module for the Docker topic.

### Contents

The *contents* section for each module comes directly after the module title. It is automatically generated by the automation pipelines we have in place for the Azure DevOps project based on the headings you have written for the module. **Do not create this yourself.**

### Overview

The *overview* contains a brief abstract of the concepts covered in the module.

As a rule of thumb for how to write an overview, consider how you might explain the topic if asked to explain it in a job interview. You would be expected to explain it accurately but concisely.

### Main Content

The *main learning content* of the module can take any form. There is not a prescribed approach for every topic, as different topics require different approaches to best explain them. However, as a rule of thumb, the main learning content should contain:

- The context for *why* a concept or tool is used. Often, the best way to describe this is by describing a problem that the tool or concept is going to solve, contextualising its use and answering the question of *why* we use a tool.
- An explanation of the tool or concept itself and how it solves a problem.
- Installation steps, if applicable.
- Code examples, if applicable, with explanations of how thew code works.

So for example, we could take the *Networking* module for the *Docker* course (you can find it under the DevOps pathway). Its main learning content contains the following headings and subheadings:

- **Networking**, which covers the requirements for adding Docker containers to a network to allow applications to communicate with one another.
- **Network Types**, which consists of multiple subheadings for each network type:
  - *Bridge Networks*
  - *Overlay Networks*
  - *Host Networks*
  - *Macvlan Networks*
- **Bridge Networks**, which goes into further detail about bridge networks as they are the main type being covered by the module.
- **Managing Networks**, which contains commands for configuring and managing Docker networks. Having a specific module with command examples is useful for learners' reference when working with networks – they have one place to look with all command examples.

### Tutorial

The *tutorial* section is used to guide learners through a practical task relating to the tool described in the module.

The tutorial should show them in extreme detail every step they need to execute to achieve a particular goal. There should be no room for interpretation, nor any requirement for critical thinking. The goal of a tutorial is just to show the learner how a tool works.

Not all modules need a tutorial, such as modules that are theoretical rather than practical. If you aren't going to include a tutorial, just write "There is no tutorial for this module." under the heading. This is required in order to pass validation.

#### Structure

You are free to structure a tutorial as you wish, but a good tutorial will follow these steps:

- **Start with the objective:** what is the learner going to achieve by the end of the tutorial? If they are going to achieve multiple things, list them out in the order that they will achieve them.

- **Prerequisites:** what operating system does this tutorial assume the learner is using? What command line interpreter are they expected to use? Is there any software they should have installed already? Is there any assumed knoweldge required for this tutorial?

- **Installation/setup:** what does the learner need to install/set up before they can complete the tutorial? Don't assume the learner is going to nicely structure their filesystem such that each tutorial has its own dedicated folder – tell them explicitly where they are going to save their files.

- **Tasks:** what are they going to do? Explain every little step, don't miss out any detail or assume any knowledge. Embed screenshots if they are using a GUI. Use code blocks for CLI commands and for blocks of code.

- **Clean up:** when they have completed the objectives set out at the beginning of the Tutorial, show them how to stop any running processes and delete any files or software that might conflict with a future tutorial or exercise. They don't need to delete the code they have written if it is not going to conflict
  
  For example, if your tutorial starts a background process (a daemon) that listens on port 5000, if you don't show the learner how to stop that process any future tutorial or exercise that also runs on port 5000 will fail, confusing the learner.

#### Writing Style

The writing style for a tutorial should 

- Assuming nothing about the learner's knowledge and explain every step they will need to carry out.

- The best tutorials take time to *concisely* explain the purpose of doing something – the *why* of it all.

### Exercises

Unlike the task set in the tutorial, the *exercises* section should contain tasks that engage the learner's creative and critical brains.

A combination of short, simple tasks and longer, open-ended tasks gives learners of different skill levels to put their knowledge to the test at the level that suits them.

It's sometimes useful to provide hints to the learner – this can be done using the `<details>` tag:

```html
<details>
    <summary>Hint</summary>
    This is a hint!
<details>
```

Not all modules need an exercise, such as modules that are theoretical rather than practical. If you aren't going to include a tutorial, just write "There are no exercises for this module." under the heading. This is required in order to pass validation.

## Writing Style and Tone

The writing style of QA Community can be best likened to that of W3Schools, who make easy-to-absorb, practical coding education material. Have a read of their [HTML Basics](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_basic.asp) topic for a good example. If ever in doubt, try to mimic their writing style and tone: to the point, succinct and written in layman's terms.

However, one thing that W3Schools doesn't focus on so much is *context*. With QA Community, providing the context for a topic or tool is paramount as the intended audience for our learning material is absolute beginners. Learners need to know *why* they're using a tool, not just *how*.

Some other key style points include:

- Avoid overuse of jargon, especially if unexplained. Correct technical terminology should be used in explanations, but you should aim for clarity and simplicity. The target audience for QA Community courseware is *absolute beginners* – less than junior-level software developers.

- Avoid writing long paragraphs of text. Aim instead for brevity. Shorter paragraphs are easier to absorb. As a rule of thumb, every line should be 1-2 sentences long. These modules are designed to be bitesize and easy to read, containing only the relevant information explained as simply and straightforward as possible.

- Make use of diagrams to illustrate concepts.

- Make sure there is a line break between each paragraph.

- Bullet points should end with full stops.

- Keep the tone of the writing casual while still professional.

- Key words should be either written in **bold** or *italics*.

- Single- and multi-line code examples should be formatted as a code block like so:
    
    Bash command example:
    ```bash
    sudo apt install tree
    ```

    Python example:
    ```python
    def hello_name(name):
        name = name.capitalize()
        return f"Hello {name}"
    ```

- References to code keywords (variable names, function names, class names, etc.) within paragraphs should be formatted as `function()`.

- Avoid showing code examples in screenshots. Instead, write them in code blocks to allow trainees to copy/paste them.
